All right, now let's work on the sign in
which is going to be happening in at the sign up page.
So we've got the sign up for an account.
We are already signed up then we want a secondary form here
that's going to be sign in.
So, we're gonna be basically repeating the whole process
and hopefully you're starting to get into a bit of a cadence
with this whole add it to the schema,
add a resolver that's either a query or a mutation,
flip over to the frontend,
build some sort of interface for it
and then manage it from there.
So, lots jump over to the backend
and we're going to be in schema.GraphQL
and we're going to be making a mutation
that's called sign in.
That takes in an email which is a string
and required in a password,
which is a string and trust required.
That is going to return to us a user that is required.
Okay, that's good.
Now we'll move over to our mutation.js
and actually implement the sign in.
So we'll do the same thing.
We'll say it's in a synchronous function called sign in.
That takes the parent,
the args,
the context and the info.
And what I'm gonna do here is show you a little example,
instead of saying args.email and args.password
when we're trying to use it
we can destructure args into email and password
directly right into the signature of that function.
Then inside of here,
what we're gonna do is
first check if there is a user with that email two,
we'll put a one beside that,
check if their password is correct
and then three,
generate the jwt token
and four,
set the cookie with the token.
Five, return the user.
Cool!
So, first step,
check if there is a user with the password.
So, we'll say const user equals await ctx.db.query.user.
Then we get to say where,
the email is going to be equal to the email.
And the reason why I destructured that
is so we can simply just say,
where the email is equal to the email in one go.
On the next line we're gonna check
if there is no user with that email address.
So, if there is no user
then we're going to throw a new error that says,
"No such user found for email."
Actually, let's flip that over to backticks,
email.
Now, some people consider
telling a user if there is no account for that email
a security issue.
It's kind of up for debate,
I don't necessarily consider it an issue.
Just because,
who cares if someone knows that you have an account.
I guess if it's an online dating website
or something like that maybe
but in this case I don't really care if people know
if there is an account for the email or not.
I had turned my own Chorus platform to doing this, I said,
"If there is an"
with a password reset,
I would say,
"If there is an account associated with this,"
"I will send you a password reset email."
And I get so much support of people being like,
"Hey, the password reset email's not showing up!"
Where as
they never actually had an account in the first place.
So, I like to tell people if it's not a real security issue
that there is no account with that email.
And by throwing the error,
what that's gonna do on the frontend,
is it's going to be caught in our query or mutation
and we'll be able to display this specific error to the user
which is great because you don't have to do anything else,
you just throw an error and you were done.
Otherwise if it is good,
we're going to check if it's proper.
So we'll say,
const valid is equal to await bcrypt.compare.
So bcrypt.compare,
it returns a promise so we can simply await it.
We're gonna compare the password against the user.password.
Right?
So we're simply just going to take
the password that they gave us,
we're gonna hash it and we're gonna compare it
against the has that we have on file
and if those two things are exactly the same hash
then it is valid.
So say if it is not valid,
then again we're gonna throw a new error,
"invalid password".
And if it is valid we can keep going.
And we're going to generate the jwt.
So we'll do this,
const token equals jwt.sign
and we can actually just go ahead up here
and take this entire line here and paste it in.
And then we'll set the cookie.
So, ctx.response.cookie.
We have to set the token.
These two lines here are going to be exactly the same
so you could create a separate secondary function
that would simply just take in the token and do these things
I'm just gonna do it twice here,
but if you had to do it more than that
I would probably refactor out into a separate function.
So, we're gonna set the token to be the token
and http only is true.
And the max age is again
1000 times 60 . 60 times 24 times 365.
And finally,
we just return the user right?
So that's the whole sign in flow,
it's surprisingly simple right?
Check if there's someone there,
check if their password's right.
If it is,
generate a jwt,
stick it in a cookie and return the user from that response.
That's good.
Now let's go and,
now let's flip over to the frontend
and create a sign in form.
So I'm gonna open up,
on the side here,
go to components,
create a capital S,
signin.js.
Gonna open up my signup.js
and I'm just gonna take everything from signup.js
and paste it into the signin.js
and we are going to rename this sign up mutation
to a sign in mutation.
Then we're gonna rename the actual function that we called
to sign in.
We're going to remove the dependency of the name
because we don't pass the name as we go ahead.
It's fine to return the ID email and the name there.
We'll rename this class to sign in.
Just double check that actually gets exported as sign in,
good.
We'll take the whole name label outta here.
And let's open up the sign up page to actually import it.
So, we're gonna import the sign up and the sign in.
I'll change to get rid of one of these extra.
Make this a sign in.
There we go!
So, we gotta sign in for an account.
We'll probably have to change that heading tag right here.
And I think we're at a point where we can test it out.
So what I'm gonna do actually right now,
is go into our application,
because we don't have a way to sign out right now.
So I'm gonna manually do that
and just blow away everything in my cookies,
go back to our sign in and I'm going to enter in fatdogs123.
Oh, shoot!
Failed to fetch.
Got a bit of an error again.
What is the thing?
Field password couldn't find type strign.
Did I goof it up in the backend?
Put up my schema.
There we go!
It's a string.
So, that's kinda nice that it tells us what the error is.
So let's try,
also that should say sign in.
Ha!
You see what happened there?
It went off and tried to sign in
and then what happened is
that the token got set in the cookie.
However, it doesn't tell me that I'm logged in yet
and we're gonna get to that in just a second,
of how you can actually do it but I'm willing to bet
if I can refresh this,
you see that I'm signed in.
If I go ahead and remove that,
give it a refresh again I'm signed out
and let's see if I pass in like a wrong password.
Let's see what it tells us.
Shoot,
invalid password.
And if I pass in an account where it doesn't exist,
it tells us,
"No such user found for that email."
So, you see how nice that error-handling is?
Where you simply can just throw an error on the backend
and it will be handled nice and cleanly in the frontend?
Big fan of that!
Let's try it one more time with something that does exist.
Dogs123.
Sign in.
Bam!
That token is there.
Now, this is kind of an interesting one with React
is that because you're not reloading a page
like you would with a server side refresh.
You have to actually go back
and do that current user query a couple more times.
This is where the mutation argument called "refetchQueries"
comes in really, really handy.
So let's open up user real quick.
And you see that we have this current user query.
We can simply ask Apollo
to just refetch this current user query for us
and then it will re-render the parts of the application
that are signed in and signed out.
So this exactly why we exported the query from user.js
because we can go into sign in and import that query.
So import, current,
user,
query from user.
Then what we'll do is,
we'll go down to our mutation here.
See, our mutation has a couple options mutation,
variables.
And then it has a refetchQueries
where you can pass it an array of queries to refetch.
So the first query is going to be,
query, current, user, query.
And then also if you had variables
you could pass them along for that as well,
but we just have a query.
And what that should do is,
when this mutation is successfully finished,
it will go into the Apollo store and refetch this query
so that this little piece of our application
should update itself.
So, I'm gonna clear this out.
Gonna give it a hard refresh.
Dogs123.
Sign in.
Bam!
And you see this little part re-rendered itself?
That because as soon as the mutation came back
it went off again and refetched that specific query.
So that's really handy
for when you need to update specific queries that we have.
That would be helpful when,
remember when we ran into that issue with Pagination?
Where we could say refetchQuery current items?
But the problem with that on our items
is that you would also need to pass the page numbers
and you would have to pass it an array of queries
for every single page
and that could be potentially hundreds of queries
if you have hundreds of pages.
We also want to do that on the sign up.
So let's go to our sign up component
and we'll import that same query.
And we'll go to our sign up mutation here
and we'll also add it as a refetch.
RefetchQueries is equal to an array.
And in that array we have a query
which is current user query.
Good!
And what that should do then is if I delete all these tokens
and if I try to sign up for like doglover123@yahoo.net
and I'll say doglover.
Password dogs123.
When I sign up you see how it set a token
and also refetched that current user query
without us having to reload the page.
So, big fan of this refreshQueries.
There's no waiting for things to be done,
you simply just give it an array of queries to refetch
and it will do that heavy-lifting for you.
Last thing we need to do is
actually create a sign out button
because otherwise we're not going to be able to again,
ask your user to manually go and delete the cookie.
Before we do the the sign out,
let's just open up our nav.js and rejig this a little bit.
I want the user Render Prop component
to be as high as possible.
So that we can show and hide these links
depending on if they're signed in or signed out.
So what we're gonna do here is we're going to first
get rid of all three of these things right here
and let's remake this an implicit return.
So, take the curly brackets
and replace them with smooth brackets, parentheses.
Then put your NavStyles inside of it
as well as everything else.
Okay,
so we have our user,
then we have our Render Prop here,
then we have our NavStyles
and then we have all of our links.
Now, here is where we're going to show and hide.
So regardless of if they're signed in or not,
we're always gonna show shop.
However we only want to show the sell if they are signed in.
We only want to show the orders,
now let's bring that up,
if they are signed in.
And then,
we only want to show the account if they are signed in.
And then we only want to show the sign up,
or the,
let's make that sign in,
if they are logged out.
Right?
So the way that we do that is,
we check if someone is signed in.
We can just simply say me, and and.
And this is that little trick I showed you earlier,
in parentheses.
Then we can put everything that we wanna show
if they are signed in, in here.
That's just a nice little trick to say,
if the person is signed in then go ahead and return this
and then we can do the opposite for this one.
So say, bang me,
and and,
parentheses,
I'll put that link inside of there.
All right, I've got a little bit of an error,
let's debug it.
Invalid password.
That was from much before.
So what's on the frontend side?
Oh, here's the error!
Adjacent JSX elements must be wrapped in an enclosing tag!
Of course they cannot be doing that right?
Right here I'm trying to return three things
and if you wanna return more than one sibling element
you must always wrap it in something.
And the way that we used to do that is wrap it in a div.
However, there is a new way to do it in React,
it's called a React Fragments.
And the way that fragments work,
specifically in Next.js because it's using Babel 7,
you can simply just use the empty angle brackets
and then the empty closing angle bracket
and that will be a fragment.
It's giving me a little grief here.
Unexpected token.
Come on!
That's probably fine.
We'll see, refresh,
it works fine!
Maybe my eslint is not up to date with the latest.
This fragment thing in react is pretty new.
So that's kind of a nice way to return multiple elements.
It's like a ghost element.
Rather than me having to put some div in there,
which is always a pain because previously
if you had a (mumbles) Flexbox or a CSS Grid
and you wanted to have parent, child relationship
it really throws a wrench into your plans
when you have to put a secondary wrapping element.
So this by having a fragment in here,
it is a invisible-rendered piece.
Okay!
Now, this is the question!
We have shop and sign in.
So if I click on the sign in
and I go ahead and try to sign in.
Dogs123, signin and bam!
You see that whole thing just updates itself?
And then we will create a sign out link.
See that in the next video.
I think we've done enough in this video
and the next video a nice quick one for sign out.
If you are maybe feeling a little bit comfortable with this
maybe try to do the sign out mutation yourself.
You'll be adding it to the schema,
you'll be writing a mutation that deletes that cookie.
And then you'll be writing a button in your Nav
that will then trigger that mutation.
So, maybe try it yourself!
Otherwise, I'll see you in the next video.